Motor neurone disease (MND) is an uncommon condition that affects the brain and nerves, causing weakness that gets worse over time. Though there is no cure for MND, treatments are available to help reduce its impact on a person's daily life, and some people live with the condition for many years. Unfortunately, MND can significantly shorten life expectancy and eventually lead to death. Early symptoms of MND include weakness in the ankle or leg, slurred speech, a weak grip, muscle cramps and twitches, weight loss, and difficulty controlling crying or laughing in inappropriate situations. MND is caused by a problem with cells in the brain and nerves called motor neurones, which gradually stop working over time. While it mainly affects people in their 60s and 70s, it can affect adults of all ages. If you have possible early symptoms of MND, such as muscle weakness, or have a close relative with MND or a related condition called frontotemporal dementia, it's essential to see a GP for a correct diagnosis as early as possible to get the care and support needed. Diagnosis of MND can be challenging, and there is no single test for it. To rule out other conditions, a neurologist may arrange various tests such as blood tests, a scan of your brain and spine, tests to measure the electrical activity in your muscles and nerves, and a lumbar puncture. Although there is no cure for MND, treatments such as highly specialized clinics, physiotherapy and exercises, speech and language therapy, advice from a dietitian, and medications can help reduce symptoms' impact. Additionally, emotional support is available for both the person with MND and their caregiver. Motor neurone disease gets gradually worse over time, with treatments such as a feeding tube or breathing air through a face mask potentially being required. The condition eventually leads to death, with life expectancy varying from a few years to decades. If you want to know more about your life expectancy, speak to a GP or your care team.